We are going to work with a DVD Rentals Sample Database,
and the idea is to master the art of dimensional modeling.
Actually, it's very hard just to know the rules and master it.
You will need to see lots and lots of examples with different tricks and
different assumptions to start actually building or getting trained in that art.
So, the DVD Rentals Sample Database is called Sakila.
It is a very classic sample database
to work with and it's prior to the age of Netflix, let's say,
but most students are
familiar with it because it's in tutorials of MySQL and PostgresSQL.
So, it looks like this.
You can ask yourself how easy is it for you to understand this database schema?
So, you can look here,
you have rentals, you have payments, you have customers,
you have stores, addressees,
staff, language, film, actor, and so on.
If you ask yourself how do I get,
for example how much did a certain movies sell in this DVD rental shop?
You will find that here,
I have a payment.
There is no direct relation between the payment and the film,
but there's a relation between the payment and the rental kind of events,
that a certain rental happened,
and the rental refers to the inventory,
and the inventory refers to the movie.
So, if I want to get to know the sales of one film,
I would actually need to join this table with this table with this table with this table.
Well, for a trained SQL person actually,
I'm sure you'd be able to do it,
but it's a bit cumbersome actually for a business user to see that.
Also this is actually a really, really simple database.
It's in third normal form,
it's complete and functional,
but it's really kind of trivial in scope or relative to a real big business database.
The second question would be,
can you spot candidates for fact tables?
I guess not the store, not the staff,
not the film, if you sell sometimes.
Yeah. I guess you guessed it right,
that would be the rentals and the payments.
Here, these are actually facts.
These are events that happened.
While actually, here you have the rental date and the return date not directly a fact,
but perhaps also the amount is a fact.
The difference between the rental data
and the return date might be a derived fact and so forth.
Can you spot candidates for dimension tables?
Well basically, you have the customer,
that's the person, the staff,
physical things like the store,
and the movie itself which is being sold actually can act as a dimension for the events.
What about the rest? You have peripheral things like the inventory,
and you might look at
inventory events on its own from another perspective
if you're analyzing the inventory efficiency or something like that.
But you have also addresses and the language of the movie and things
like that which might actually most of
those things might be normalized inside the fact or the dimensions tables.
So, that's the third normal form of schema,
that's the star schema.
You need to agree that this is actually
indeed easier for business users to understand because you have one thing,
here are the sales.
You can group them by date,
or customer, or store, or movie,
or actually a group of them or all of them,
but the idea is you have one clear kind of sales amount that you can work with.
That is the fact you're working with.
Of course, you can have many such fact tables,
but they are going to be like nice and clear like this one.
So, I hope that actually I was able to sell you
the idea that the star schema is indeed easier to understand.
How to move from here to there.
We can take a Naive ETL approach first,
very simple up to the scope of Sakila.
We want to query the third normal form which is extracting data.
We are going to join tables together to do a bit of the normalization,
change the types, add new columns,
that's transformation, then load into new tables.
That's pretty much it.